v5.2 desktop app changelog (#5903)
mattermost/docs: source/install/desktop-app-changelog.rst

Latest Mattermost Desktop App releases:

- `Release v5.2 <#id1>`_
- `Release v5.1 <#id3>`_
- `Release v5.0 <#id18>`_
- `Release v4.7 <#id34>`_
- `Release v4.6 <#id52>`_
- `Release v4.5 <#id64>`_

Release v5.2
--------------

**v5.2.0 release day: 2022-10-14**

**Download Binaries:** `Mattermost Desktop on GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/releases/latest>`_

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Desktop Apps are required to be used with any `supported Extended Support Release or a newer Mattermost server version <https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-lifecycle.html>`_.

Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Onboarding screen improvements: Added new **Configure Server** and intro screens when starting the app without servers created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Onboarding screen improvements: Added new **Configure Server** and first user onboarding screens when starting the app without servers configured.
```

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Linux
^^^^^^

- Dropped support for Linux IA32 (Linux 32-bit builds).

All Platforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> - Added localization support to the Desktop app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added localization support to the Desktop App.
```

> - Zoom in/out now works when ``ctrl+shift+=`` is pressed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Zoom in/out now works when ``CTRL/CMD+SHIFT+=`` is pressed.
```

- Changed the order of fields in the Add Server modal so that the server URL is filled in first and the display name after.
- The app window now reloads only when the URL changes, not when a server's name changes.
- Updated the default window size to 1280x800, so that users can now see other login options as well on first load.
- Swapped the dark and light theme tray icons on Linux and Windows to the expected behavior.
- Disabled the auto-update functionality explicitly for all MSI installers except the Windows EXE installer and the Linux AppImage.
- Dropped support for asterisk-based unreads in Mattermost Self-Hosted versions older than v5.28.
- Improved the performance of window resizing.

Architectural Changes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Major version upgrade of Electron to v19.0.6. Electron is the underlying technology used to build the Desktop app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Major version upgrade of Electron to v19.0.6. Electron is the underlying technology used to build the Desktop App.
```

Bug Fixes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Linux
^^^^^^

> - To fix notification issues for Linux users, the default for config setting ``notifications.flashWindow`` was changed to 0 under Linux.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- To fix notification issues for Linux users, the configuration setting ``notifications.flashWindow`` default value was changed to ``0`` for Linux.
```

All Platforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed an issue where an Operating System could register Mattermost as the default web browser / mail app.
- Fixed an issue where the download notification showed the wrong file name.
- Fixed an issue where it was possible to drag the Minimize/Close buttons.

> - Fixed an issue where servers were not forced to update their configuration using the configured SiteURL if available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where servers were not forced to update their configuration using the configured ``SiteURL`` value if available.
```

- Fixed an issue where a misleading error message from a remote certificate would imply that the Mattermost server had an issue.
- Fixed an issue where users still received notifications when their status was set to **Do Not Disturb**.
- Fixed an issue where users could not replace files in the **Downloads** folder.
- Fixed improper reporting of app version when the ``--version`` or ``-v`` command-line flags were passed.

Open Source Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Added ``macos-notification-state``, ``windows-focus-assist``, and ``react-intl`` to hhttps://github.com/mattermost/desktop.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added ``macos-notification-state``, ``windows-focus-assist``, and ``react-intl`` to https://github.com/mattermost/desktop.
```

Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Mattermost Desktop App v5.1.0 cannot be launched twice on Windows servers with the role "Remote Desktop Session Host".

Reviewer: Question: Is this a known issue for the v5.1.1 patch release and the v5.2 release as well? If so, may want to call out each affected version. And if it isn't, may want to add a note to the bug fix list.

Author: cc @devinbinnie to confirm if this is still an issue.

Reviewer 2: I'm actually not sure where this came from the first time. Normally you shouldn't be able to launch 2 instances of the app on any machine.

- Crashes might be be experienced in some Linux desktop clients. This is an upstream bug in the ``libnotifyapp`` library. A recommended workaround is to disable the system tray icon in the Desktop settings.

> - On apps using GPO configurations, when adding a second server tab, it is possible to drag and drop tabs but they will jump back to the original position when releasing the mouse.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- On apps using GPO configurations, when adding a second server tab, it's possible to drag and drop tabs, but they'll jump back to the original position when releasing the mouse.
```

Latest Mattermost Desktop App releases:

- `Release v5.2 <#id1>`_
- `Release v5.1 <#id3>`_
- `Release v5.0 <#id18>`_
- `Release v4.7 <#id34>`_
- `Release v4.6 <#id52>`_
- `Release v4.5 <#id64>`_

Release v5.2
--------------

**v5.2.0 release day: 2022-10-24**

**Download Binaries:** `Mattermost Desktop on GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/releases/latest>`_

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Desktop Apps are required to be used with any `supported Extended Support Release or a newer Mattermost server version <https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-lifecycle.html>`_.

> Highlights

Reviewer 2: We'll want to add Tasos' downloads dropdown under this once it's merged: https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/pull/2227

Latest Mattermost Desktop App releases:

- `Release v5.2 <#id1>`_
- `Release v5.1 <#id3>`_
- `Release v5.0 <#id18>`_
- `Release v4.7 <#id34>`_
- `Release v4.6 <#id52>`_
- `Release v4.5 <#id64>`_

Release v5.2
--------------

**v5.2.0 release day: 2022-10-24**

**Download Binaries:** `Mattermost Desktop on GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/desktop/releases/latest>`_

Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Desktop Apps are required to be used with any `supported Extended Support Release or a newer Mattermost server version <https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-lifecycle.html>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Desktop Apps must be used with any `supported Extended Support Release or a newer Mattermost server version <https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/release-lifecycle.html>`_.
```

Highlights
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Onboarding screen improvements: Added new **Configure Server** and first user onboarding screens when starting the app without servers configured.

> - Added a downloads dropdown menu that displays the file upload progress and recently downloaded files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a Downloads dropdown menu that displays file upload progress and recently downloaded files.
```

Improvements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Linux
^^^^^^

- Dropped support for Linux IA32 (Linux 32-bit builds).

All Platforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> - Added localization support to the Desktop App.

Reviewer 2: Might want to comment that this is beta since only some of the app is fully translated.

All Platforms
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

- Fixed an issue where an Operating System could register Mattermost as the default web browser / mail app.
- Fixed an issue where the download notification showed the wrong file name.
- Fixed an issue where it was possible to drag the Minimize/Close buttons.
- Fixed an issue where servers were not forced to update their configuration using the configured ``SiteURL`` value if available.
- Fixed an issue where a misleading error message from a remote certificate would imply that the Mattermost server had an issue.
- Fixed an issue where users still received notifications when their status was set to **Do Not Disturb**.
- Fixed an issue where users could not replace files in the **Downloads** folder.
- Fixed improper reporting of app version when the ``--version`` or ``-v`` command-line flags were passed.

Open Source Components
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Added ``macos-notification-state``, ``windows-focus-assist``, and ``react-intl`` to https://github.com/mattermost/desktop.

Known Issues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> - Users seeing an endless "Loading..." screen when attempting to log in to the app may need to manually blow out their cache directory. For Mac it is located in ``/Users/<username>/Library/Containers/Mattermost/Data/Library/Application Support/Mattermost``.

Reviewer 3: I'd not use the term "blow out" :D Maybe "remove"?

> Known Issues

Reviewer 2: We should probably add a known issue for this: https://community.mattermost.com/core/pl/hhy4tn6ot7r8ffx18ywaofuxhw

Author: I just added it 👍

Reviewer 2: Somehow I didn't see it my bad :D
